# Lack of L1CAM drives tumorigenicity, stemness and tumor fibrosis inpancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma
Donatella Delle Cave a, Silvia Buonaiuto a, Maria Mangini b, Vincenza Colonna a, Anna Chiara DeLuca b and Enza Lonardo a

ASET-2021: Global Webinar on Applied Science, Engineering and Technology.


a. Institute of Genetics and Biophysics ‘Adriano Buzzati-Traverso’, CNR, Naples, Italy

b. Institute of Biochemistry and Cellular Biology, National Research Council of Italy, Naples,Italy.

E-mail address: donatella.dellecave@igb.cnr.it

Pancreatic   ductal   adenocarcinoma   (PDAC)   is   a   leading   cause   of   cancer-related   mortality,characterized   by   extensive   fibrosis   causing   chemoresistance   and   tumor   progression.   L1   celladhesion   molecule   (L1CAM,   L1)   expression   is   generally   associated   with   poor   prognosis   indifferent human tumors, while its role in PDAC remains debated. This study aims to explore thecontribution of L1 in PDAC progression.We performed tissue microarray analysis of L1 in PDAC patients and L1 cell sorting, silencingand   overexpression   in   several   PDXs.  RNA   sequencing   was   performed   to   characterize   geneexpression based on different L1 levels.We discovered a new role of L1 as a tumor suppressor gene in pancreatic cancer. We found thatL1   is   downregulated   in   the   majority   of   PDAC   tumors,   marks   the   highly   tumorigenicsubpopulation  of cancer  stem cells  and increases  chemoresistance  and tumor invasiveness  byinducing an augmented expression of collagen and metalloproteinases (MMPs), as demonstratedby RNA sequencing and confirmed by  in vivo  experiments. Conversely, overexpression of L1counteracts stemness and thereby sensitize tumors for chemotherapy. We demonstrate that theTGF-β1   secreted   by   PSCs   cells,   the   most   abundant   component   of   PDAC   stroma,   negativelyregulates   L1   expression,   leading   to   increased   stemness   and   tumorigenicity.   Interestingly,   wefound   that   the   L1low  cells   stimulates   the   collagen   production   by   PSCs,   while   this   effect   issignificantly   attenuated   by   the   overexpression   of   L1   in   tumors.   Altogether   these   datademonstrate an intrigued cross-talk between PSC and PDAC cells, in which the PSCs represent asupportive niche for PDAC cells promoting their aggressiveness through the downregulation ofL1 mediated by TGF-β1. Furthermore, the tumor cells themselves can influence the mechanicalproperties   of   ECM   and   this   effect   is   mediated   by   L1   downregulation.   The   restoration   of   L1expression   could   prevents   the   malignant   behavior   of   the   tumor   cells,   thus   leading   to   a   lessaggressive phenotype
