# Third generation sequencing to perform longer reads of nucleic acid for genome analysis of SARS-CoV-2: The Oxford Nanopore Technology (ONT).

Federica Di Maggio1,2, Gianluca Damaggio3, Marcella Nunziato1,2, Claudia Tiberio4, Sebastiano Di Biase5, Bruna Lo Sasso6,7, Luigi Atripaldi4, Marcello Ciaccio6,7, Vincenza Colonna3, Francesco Salvatore1,2

1. Ceinge - Biotecnologie Avanzate, Naples, Italy.
2. Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnologies, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy. 
3. Institute of Genetics and Biophysics "A. Buzzati-Traverso", National Research Council (CNR), Naples, Italy.
4. Microbiology and Virology Unit, Cotugno Hospital, Azienda Ospedaliera dei Colli, Napoli, Italy..
5. MeriGen Research, Naples, Italy.
6. Department of Biomedicine, Neurosciences and Advanced Diagnostics, Institute of Clinical Biochemistry, Clinical Molecular Medicine and Laboratory Medicine, University of Palermo, Via del Vespro, 129, CAP 90127, Palermo, Sicily, Italy.
7. Department of Laboratory Medicine, University-Hospital, Palermo, Italy.


On December 31, 2019, the Chinese Health Authority alerted the World Health Organization (WHO) to several cases of pneumonia of unknown etiology in the city of Wuhan, central China.
On January 7, 2020, a new Coronavirus was identified and isolated from a patient's swab; subsequently, the pathogen was renamed: Severe Acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (Sars-CoV-2) and the related pathology Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). To date July 2021, globally, there have been 181.930.736 confirmed cases of COVID-19, including 3.945.832 deaths; in Italy, 4.259.909 confirmed cases with 127.566 deaths reported to WHO. Currently, several studies on the virus and phylogenetic analyses on the Sars-CoV-2 genome have been carried out, but only, 2.262.822 sequences, worldwide, are available online; in this scenario, Italy is at the 12th place for published data and accounts 37.146 online sequences. However, more and more relevant appears the identification of new variants, through the entire viral genome, to try to stop its spread, to identify new therapies and to evaluate the efficacy of the vaccines in their different usage in physiopatological situation depending on the various pathologies, on the age of the subject and their ethnicity, and also where have been already affected by Sars-CoV-2 infection, also according to different vaccine.
For this study, we enrolled 150 patients positive for Sars-CoV-2  when using Real-Time PCR, a gold-standard for the diagnosis of COVID-19, and with a ΔCt between 18-30. More in detail, we used the amplicon sequencing protocol developed by ARTIC Network and combined with Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) sequencing. Starting from viral RNA, extracted from oropharyngeal swabs, the cDNA was synthesized from 11 μL of viral RNA with random hexamers. PCR was performed with a set of primers (n=98 couples), designed by the ARTIC network and commercialized into two separated pools (A and B), that span the whole genome of Sars-CoV-2 (~30.000 bp). The PCR products are amplicons of 500 bp in length, and actually the longest commercialized. We sequenced the total samples (n=150) in 2 different runs made by 55 and 95, respectively, using the PromethIon 24 (Oxford-Nanopore). To minimize sequencing errors we performed two separate library prep and two sequencing runs, for each sample, for better sequencing obtainment of robust results and here we will report the first obtained results and observations on the same samples, after the use of this novel Technology and data deposit on GISAID database. 
