Sequencing of tumoroids derived from colorectal cancer patients, including WGS-strategy.

Federica Di Maggio1,2, Marcella Nunziato1,2, Gianluca Damaggio3, Giuseppe Boccia4, Marcello Filotico4, Francesco Maione5, Marco Milone5, Gaetano Luglio5, Giovanni Domenico De Palma5, Francesco Corcione4, Vincenza Colonna3, Francesco Salvatore1,2.

1 Ceinge - Biotecnologie Avanzate, Naples, Italy.
2 Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnologies, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.
3 Institute of Genetics and Biophysics "A. Buzzati-Traverso", National Research Council (CNR), Naples, Italy. 
4 Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples "Federico II", Via Pansini 5, 80131 Naples, Italy.
 
In recent years, it has becoming increasingly important the study of precision medicine for the treatment of cancer patients [1]; in our case, with specific reference to colorectal cancers (CRC). CRC is the fourth most frequent malignancy and the third leading cause of cancer death worldwide [2]. In this context, the study of three-dimensional cell models, such as tumoroids, has great potential in translational clinical research [3]. Indeed, the stabilization of patient derived organoids (PDOs) is one of the tool of choice for cancer studies for their capacity to held some characteristics of the tumors from which they derive [4,5]. In our project, we established 15 PDOs derived from patients with CRC. We have observed them during the various phases of their growth with microscopy analyses. Furthermore, we also verified the origin of our tumoroid cells by immunofluorescence analyses by testing Cytokeratin 20 and ki-67. To better understand the mutation pattern of each stabilized PDOs, we carried out molecular analyses: first, using a customized multigene panel (n=58), and then using whole genome sequencing (WGS) with Oxford Nanopore Technology (ONT). These analyses were performed on 4 different genomes derived from the same patient (blood, PDOs, tumor-derived tissue and locally paired healthy tissue). Using this strategy we found in our patients 14 mutations in genes related to CRC predisposition (blood samples), and 37 pathogenic mutations at somatic level in the PDOs. Thus, with this strategy is possible to allow the “Personalized Precision Medicine” for each patient. Experiments are ongoing to extend this comparative analysis of sequences to the whole mutation spectrum in the framework of precision medicine studies, including library screening of colorectal anticancer drugs for specific mutations. This work is supported by CIRO project (to FS) from Campania Region (Italy), SATIN “Neoplasia studies” from Campania Region (to FS) and “Predictive Medicine in neoplasia” (to FS) from Campania Region (Italy).


 
References:
1.	Pauli C, Hopkins BD, Prandi D, Shaw R, Fedrizzi T, Sboner A, Sailer V, Augello M, Puca L, Rosati R, McNary TJ, Churakova Y, Cheung C, Triscott J, Pisapia D, Rao R, Mosquera JM, Robinson B, Faltas BM, Emerling BE, Gadi VK, Bernard B, Elemento O, Beltran H, Demichelis F, Kemp CJ, Grandori C, Cantley LC, Rubin MA. Personalized In Vitro and In Vivo Cancer Models to Guide Precision Medicine. Cancer Discov. 2017 May; 7:462-477. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-16-1154. 
2.	Sung H, Ferlay J, Siegel RL, Laversanne M, Soerjomataram I, Jemal A, Bray F. Global Cancer Statistics 2020: GLOBOCAN Estimates of Incidence and Mortality Worldwide for 36 Cancers in 185 Countries. CA Cancer J Clin. 2021 May; 71:209-249. doi: 10.3322/caac.21660. 
3.	Lau HCH, Kranenburg O, Xiao H, Yu J. Organoid models of gastrointestinal cancers in basic and translational research. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2020 Apr; 17:203-222. doi: 10.1038/s41575-019-0255-2.
4.	Flood M, Narasimhan V, Wilson K, Lim WM, Ramsay R, Michael M, Heriot A. Organoids as a Robust Preclinical Model for Precision Medicine in Colorectal Cancer: A Systematic Review. Ann Surg Oncol. 2022 Jan; 29:47-59. doi: 10.1245/s10434-021-10829-x. 
5.	Sato T, Stange DE, Ferrante M, Vries RG, Van Es JH, Van den Brink S, Van Houdt WJ, Pronk A, Van Gorp J, Siersema PD, Clevers H. Long-term expansion of epithelial organoids from human colon, adenoma, adenocarcinoma, and Barrett's epithelium. Gastroenterology. 2011 Nov; 141:1762-72. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2011.07.050.

