# Unraveling the contribution of L1low cancer cell-derived collagen in chemoresistance and metastasis of pancreatic cancer
Donatella Delle Cave1, Silvia Buonaiuto, Annalisa Di Domenico, Vincenza Colonna, Enza Lonardo

1. Institute of Genetics and Biophysics ‘Adriano Buzzati-Traverso’, CNR, Naples, Italy

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a devastating and essentially incurable disease, typically characterized by pronounced desmoplastic reaction attributable to the deposition of a collagen-rich fibrotic extracellular matrix. Despite improvements in the understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying pancreatic cancer biology and in defining new curative strategies, the contribution of tumor cell-derived collagen to PDAC growth, progression and extracellular matrix (ECM) stiffness is principally unknown. We demonstrated that tumors with a more aggressive phenotype (high stroma and high TGF-β1) exhibit reduced L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM, L1) expression. In details, we found that L1low PDAC cells had an in vivo increased tumor-initiating capacity and this phenotype is linked to increased stemness, chemoresistance and invasiveness. Mechanistically, we found that TGF-β1 secreted by the pancreatic stellate cells (PSC) negatively regulated the L1 expression, leading the L1low cells, in turn, to stimulate the collagen deposition in PSCs. Interestingly, by mRNA sequencing (RNA-seq) we observed an augmented expression of genes involved in collagen metabolism and degradation in the L1low cells compared to the L1high counterpart, resulting in a more metabolically active population. In vivo we confirmed the increase in collagen content in tumor injected with L1low cells that enables this tumor to be more resistant to the gemcitabine treatment compared to the L1high counterpart. In sum, we propose L1 as a novel therapeutic target to reduce PDAC progression and tumor fibrosis, and these findings will  pave the way to stratify the patients based on their tumor epithelial collagen expression to improve personalized treatments.
Keywords:
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma; L1CAM; collagen; fibrosis. 
