# Third generation DNA sequencing for WGS and methylome profile with Oxford Nanopore Technology: a comparison in three genome samples (tumor, paired-healthy tissue and tumoroid colture) from the same patient

Federica Di Maggio1,2, Marcella Nunziato1,2, Gianluca Damaggio3, Giuseppe Boccia4, Marcello Filotico4,Marco Milone5, Francesco Maione5, Gaetano Luglio5, Giovanni Domenico De Palma5, Francesco Corcione4, Vincenza Colonna3, Francesco Salvatore1,2.

1. Ceinge - Biotecnologie Avanzate, Naples, Italy.
2. Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnologies, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.
3. Institute of Genetics and Biophysics "A. Buzzati-Traverso", National Research Council (CNR), Naples, Italy. 
4. Department of General Surgery and Surgical Specialties, General and Mininvasive Oncological Surgical Unit, University of Naples "Federico II", Via Pansini 5, 80131 Naples, Italy.
5. Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples "Federico II", Via Pansini 5, 80131 Naples, Italy.


Colorectal cancer is the fourth most frequent malignancy and the third leading cause of cancer death worldwide with approximately 1.9 million new cases, and 935,173 deaths estimated in 2020. Tumors are defined as diseases at DNA levels due to the accumulation of a number of anomalies, (small to large mutations, chromosomal alterations and epigenetic modifications), mostly in genes that control proliferation, differentiation, death and integrity of the genetic cell heritage. Among common malignancies, colorectal cancer (CRC) bears one of the largest proportion of familial cases; therefore, also the knowledge of the mutational status of predisposing genes in patients may represent an important prevention tool, since it would allow the identification of high-risk subjects to be candidates for targeted prevention and/or therapeutical strategies, also by early finding of cellular signs and symptoms.
For many decades, the 2D in vitro cultures have been used, while during the last decade, Patient-derived Organoid (PDO) have emerged as a new tool also in case of their use in preclinical and clinical models. In this scenario, we are stabilizing PDOs (n=10, at the moment) from patients affected by colorectal cancer, and following them during the various phases of growth also by advanced microscopy methodology. Moreover, molecular analyses are ongoing, to evaluate the genetic pattern of the three genomes derived from the same patient (tumoroid, tumor-derived tissue and paired healthy tissue). We then performed Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) analyses by third generation sequencing, with the use of PromethIon24- Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT). 
In addition, we designed a multi-gene panel (n=48) to investigate any possible alteration which affects the germinal and the somatic line of the patient's DNA also at tumoroid level. In these experiments, libraries have been obtained using our customized panel by target enrichment system (HaloPlex- Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA, USA). The sequencing run was performed using a MiSeq platform (Illumina) and the data analysis for the identification of variants was performed using Alissa Software. With the customized 48 gene panel, in one patient (in the organoid and in tumor-derived tissue) we discovered a pathogenic mutation in TP53 gene, c.584T>C. 
Further experiments are ongoing  extend this comparative analysis of sequences with the aim of analyzing the whole mutation spectrum in the framewrok of  precision medicine studies, including  library screening of anticancer drugs for specific mutation. 
This work is supported by CIRO project (to FS) from Campania Region (Italy), SATIN “Neoplasia studies” from Campania Region (to FS) and “Predictive Medicine in neoplasia” (to FS) from Campania Region (Italy).
