# Whole genome and DNA methylation analyses by third generation sequencing identifies gene alterations in a testicular cancer family

Marcella Nunziato1,2, Federica Di Maggio1,2, Gianluca Damaggio3, Felice Crocetto4, Savio Domenico Pandolfo4, Achille Aveta4 , Alessandra Calabrese5, Vincenza Colonna3, Ciro Imbimbo4, Francesco Salvatore1,2

1. Ceinge - Biotecnologie Avanzate, Naples, Italy.
2. Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnologies, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy. 
3. Institute of Genetics and Biophysics "A. Buzzati-Traverso", National Research Council (CNR), Naples, Italy.
4. Department of Neurosciences, Human Reproduction and Odontostomatology, University of Naples Federico II, Naples 80131, Italy.
5. Istituto Nazionale Tumori IRCCS "Fondazione G. Pascale", Via Mariano Semmola, 53, 80131 Napoli NA, Italy.

Testicular cancer (TC) is a very common neoplasia in adolescent and young men; among these, testicular germ cell tumors (TGCTs) is the most frequent one. In 2020, the incidence in men worldwide was 74.458 of new cases and the mortality accounts for about 12%. In young men (0-29 years old) the incidence of this type of cancer is about 9% of all new cases of TC. In this context, the early diagnosis and the comprehension of genetic pathogenesis gains an important role. At the Department of Human Reproduction of the University of Naples Federico II, a 18 years old patient was enrolled for a neoformation of the left didymus; he underwent an orchifunicolectomy of the left testicle. The histological diagnosis confirmed the presence of a mixed germ cell tumor consisting mainly of embryonic carcinoma (~80%) with a share of teratoma (~15%) and a small share of Yolk-Sak tumor (~5%). Due to the early-onset of the tumor (18 years old) and to the familiarity for seminoma (the father, at the age of 40 ys), we performed, firstly, a genetic analysis on the entire family-trio using a customized 48 multi-gene panel. Our multi-genes panel accounts for 883 target regions and contains 18.848 probes for a total size of 745.994 kbp. The custom-original panel includes all coding exons for each gene, at least 50 bp at exon boundaries on each side (5' and 3') and also the 5' promoter sequence of each gene and the 3' UTR region. The 48 genes selected are associated not only to breast and ovarian cancer but also to other cancers as colon and prostate cancers. An enriched DNA library has been obtained using the HaloPlex Target Enrichment System (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA, USA), following manufacturer’s instructions. Sequencing run was performed using MiSeq platform. Data analysis for the identification of pathogenic variants was performed using Alissa Software. 
Then, we extended the analyses to a Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) using Oxford Nanopore Technology (ONT) strategy; thanks to that we performed not only a genome comparison between the trio but also a whole methyloms analysis. Starting from 1µg of genomic DNA we prepared directly the library without fragmentation step and following the manufacturer's instructions (Ligation Sequencing Kit, Nanopore Oxford). Three different sequencing runs, for each patient, were performed on Promethion-24. The bioinformatics analysis was performed on Deep Variant for variant calling analysis, Nanopolish and PycoMeth for methylation analysis.
The average read depth obtained, for Illumina Sequencing, was 511X, 515X and 605X for the proband, his father and his mother, respectively. We identified, with the customized panel, two interesting variant: one shared with his mother in CHEK2 gene, c.721+3A>T reported as conflicting for pathogenicity in ClinVar database, and one de novo in ELAC2, c.2389G>T (p.Glu797Ter), not reported in ClinVar database, but in silico analyses is predicted as Likely Pathogenic. 
With Nanopore strategy.....
In conclusion, with Nanopore approach, in a single step strategy we can obtain all the information for a complete first glance characterization of the genomic sequencing profile.
This work is supported by CIRO project (to FS) from Campania Region (Italy), SATIN “Neoplasia studies” from Campania Region (to FS) and “Predictive Medicine in neoplasia” (to FS) from Campania Region (Italy).
